We are naturally drawn to it, whether it is epic or subtle, artistic beauty captivates
us.
Sometimes, it astonishes us in unexpected places.
For example, sea slugs sport bold colors that may ward off potential predators.
But to us, these colors form artistic arrangements of stunning beauty.
Chameleons are known for their ability to alter their coloring, sometimes to warn.
But at other times, to attract the eyes of a potential mate, some unrelated animals
seem to have gone to the same artistic school, as in the case of the peacock spider.
And its namesake, unlike a static painting, many animals use motion to extend their arrangements
of color, texture, and form.
Few birds can match the flamboyance of male birds of paradise.
Mating pairs of western grieves take artistic performance a step further.
They put on intricately timed and precisely executed dances.
The ultimate water ballet.
Male bower birds show an almost artistic sensibility by arranging material from their environment,
in a manner we happen to find aesthetically appealing.
Another animal that displays what resembles a creative impulse, assembles an exhibition
of immense scale when compared to its size.
The white-spotted pufferfish sculpts an intricate pattern on the seafloor sand.
That we find beautiful.
The male that labors on this underwater installation hopes that the male will take note and approve.
What do you think?
Did the artistry we see in animals simply evolve?
Or was it designed?